Chapter 1: Origins & Family Roots (1904-1935)

This is at the urging of my son Mark, who asked me to document the Koscak family's origin and history and to describe some of the more memorable events in my life. I have tried to do that to the best of my knowledge and recollection.

I was born on November 23, 1930, and named Marko Franc Koscak (now Mark F.). I was born in the city of Ljubljana, which is the capital of Slovenia. Slovenia was at that time a part of the kingdom and later (since 1945) the Republic of Yugoslavia. Slovenia is now an independent country of about 3 million people.

My parents were Marko Koscak (called Mirko) and Marija Koscak (now Mary). I was baptized Roman Catholic. I was the first of my parents' three children. The three of us were born about five years apart. My sister was named Florijana Marija (she was called Cvetka--meaning flower) and is now Mary, was born on April 29, 1935. My brother Ivo (now John) was born on March 26, 1941. Our native language was Slovenian, which is a Slavic language. The Slovenian language has common roots with other Slavic languages but is a distinct language of its own. Because of the lack of use, my current ability to speak in my native language is getting pretty poor.

My father and mother were married in Ljubljana on September 8, 1929. They rented an apartment in that city and lived there until I was about four years old. I believe that the city has about 100,000 inhabitants. The river Ljubljanca flows through the city. I was told that when I was a toddler, I fell into the river from a city bridge. My father jumped into the river after me and rescued me.

My mother was born on May 6, 1907. Her parents were Vincent and Marija (maiden name Skitek) Kanonik. She was born in Ravne na Koroskem, a small town in the northeastern part of Slovenia and close to the Austrian border. At the time, this was part of the Austro-Hungarian empire. The people in that part of the country were mostly bilingual--spoke both Slovenian and German. My mother always spoke a very excellent German. My mother had one younger brother, Vincent--called Cencl. My grandfather was a metal worker and worked in a local factory. My grandmother on my mother's side died at an age of 32 from some type of liver problems, when my mother was about seven years old. This was during the 1st World War and, at the time of her death, my grandfather was serving in the Austrian army. He was released from army duty soon after the grandmother's death to take care of his two children. He later remarried. He married a widow with four children. The oldest daughter, a girl of my mother's age, caused my mother a lot of grief and this eventually resulted in my mother being sent away to work at the age of fourteen, in the City of my birth, Ljubljana. My mother was employed in the household of a well-to-do family that owned a large leather goods manufacturing factory. She was well-liked by the people she worked for and they treated her very well. It was there that she met my father who was an employee at the factory.

My maternal grandfather died as a result of diabetes and lung problems, at the age of 58. I was told that I have seen my grandfather when I was very young, but I do not remember him. Several of his family members also had diabetes problems.

My uncle Cencl also worked in the local metal factory (it was the main employer of the area). He was also a musician and played several instruments in a band that played for weddings and other celebrations. He caught a bad cold that eventually turned into tuberculosis, and he died as a young man at the age of 23. My uncle had a son, Ernest, with his bride-to-be. He got seriously ill and died before they could get married. I have never met my cousin Ernest, but he lives in the town of Ravne na Koroskem, in Slovenia. He is married and has two children, Ernest and Erika. I understand that at this point he has three grandchildren. Cousin Ernest is about my age. He is a farmer.

My father was born on April 24, 1904, in the village of Zagrad pri Skocjanu. His parents were Franc and Ana Koscak. My father's birthplace was located in the southeastern part of Slovenia, close to the Croatian border. At that time, this was part of the Austro-Hungarian Empire. My father and his family only spoke Slovenian. There were fourteen children in my father's family, one of them died at birth. Of the remaining children, there were seven boys: my father Mirko, Franc, Joze, Ivan, Karl, Andrej, Lojze, and five girls: Toncka, Micel, Anica, Neska, and Lojzka. My grandparents owned a small vineyard. My grandfather was a tradesman. He produced and repaired horsegear that was used for horse-drawn buggies and land-tilling. He produced and repaired all types of leather gear that was needed to hitch the horses to a cart or a plow. He would spend much of his time on the road, going from one farmer to the next, to work on the farmer's horsegear. He would take some of his payments in farmers goods and take them home to his family. My father served his apprenticeship with his father and learned the leatherware trade from him.

My father served his required time (I believe two years) in the Yugoslav army. He was a cavalryman and served in a select unit of the king of Yugoslavia's guard. After the military service, my father went to work for a leather goods manufacturer in Ljubljana. There he learned to hand-produce all types of leatherware, including suitcase, ladies bags, wallets, change purses, and various leather sports articles-including soccer balls, hand balls, etc.

Both grandparents on my father's side died at an advanced age, apparently of natural causes, after our family was out of the country. I am not sure of their age at that time. I believe that all my father's brothers and sisters are dead at this time, with the exception of uncle Joze who now lives in Australia. He was a shoe manufacturer and owned a large shoe store in Ljubljana. He had to flee the country during the communist regime. He now produces shoes and owns a small store in Sydney, Australia. His wife and two children returned to their homeland. He lives in Australia with his new family.

In addition to uncle Joze's children, I believe that there are several other cousins from my father's side of the family. I have never met any one of them. I understand that a cousin now lives in the grandparents house with her family.

One of my grandfather's step-sons (Karl) and his wife are the parents of Tony Stekl, who is a Roman Catholic priest. We met Tony when he visited here, on two occasions. He is now a parish priest in Vienna, Austria, where he serves the large number of Slovenians that work in that city.
