Chapter 7: Building a New Life (1951-1956)

My first job in Chicago was with Hines Lumber company. I remember lugging big doors around all day. I worked there one day only. Somebody found a better job for me with a company that was manufacturing house trailers--the Glider Trailer Company. I was trained making cabinets for the trailers. After a while, I started attending the De Vry's school of electronics at night. Electronics was a new industry at that time and I thought this might be a good field to get into. I attended that school for about 18 month. In 1952, I started to work as a T.V. technician, working for the Admiral Company, a major television manufacturer at that time. I worked there until I was drafted into the U.S Army, in November 1953.

In the summer of 1952, my good fortune continued, I met the girl of my dreams who was to become my future wife. I attended a German picnic at the old Riverview amusement park which was located at Western Avenue and Belmont, in Chicago and has since been demolished. I ran into a group of about five girls that had this very strong family resemblance--the Tiedmann girls. Wally and I started to go out together soon thereafter and were engaged in the fall of 1953.

Wally Tiedmann was born in Obeliai, Lithuania, on July 21, 1932. Her parents Johann and Natalie Tiedmann were of German descent and owned a farm. Wally was the fifth of eight children. She has two brothers: John and Siegmund and four sisters: Jenny, Annie, Heddy, Elsie, and Irma.

In November of 1953, I was drafted into the U.S. Army. For the next two years, I became G.I. No. US 55449878. Fortunately, the Korean war just came to an end at that time. I spent a very miserable eight weeks in basic army training in Fort Leonard Wood, in Missouri. I spent another eight weeks in radio communications training in Fort Knox in Kentucky. After that, the unit that I was assigned to was to be shipped overseas. Half the company, last names starting from A to J were sent to Germany, and the other half from K to Z to Korea. I was not to happy about my destination.

My unit spent several weeks in Tacoma Washington, before we were loaded on a troop carrier in Seattle, for the trip to Pusan, Korea. I spent about five months in Korea. I was assigned to an anti-aircraft-artillery battalion, stationed at an U.S. Air Force airbase north of the Korean capitol of Soeul.

We lived in tents that were set up at the edge of rice paddies and just across from where the Air Force jets were revving up their engines before taking off. I spent most of my time maintaining radio communications equipment. Korea, at that time was a very poor, war-ravaged country. The people were very poor.

In the summer of 1954, my battalion was transferred to Camp Drake, just outside Tokyo, Japan. This was quite a change in our standard of living. I did not miss Korea a bit. My unit stayed at Camp Drake about five or six month. I made my U.S. citizenship in Tokyo during my stay there. I also started to get my promotions to Private First Class, Corporal, and later to Sergeant. At one of the monthly paydays, my first Sergeant told me that I better buy a $1.00 raffle ticket. The first prize of the raffle was a new car. A couple of months later my number was drawn and I owned a brand new 1945 Ford Fairlane. Around that time, my battalion was getting ready to be transferred to the southern Japanese city of Nagoya. I had to really hustle to sell the car to a Japanese car dealer. He paid me $2100.00 in Yen. At 360 Yen to a Dollar, and with the largest Japanese denomination of 100 Yen, I received a 5-pound brown bag full of Japanese money. At that time, there was no official way for me to convert the Yen into Dollars. The conversion of the Japanese money into dollars was a real experience for me. My company commander allowed me to stand in the pay line and sell Yen to my fellow-soldiers who needed the Japanese money to go out on the town. It took me two paydays to convert the money. Soon after that my battalion was moved to Nagoya. I stayed there until September of 1955 when I was shipped back to the United States and released from the Army.
