Chapter 4: Communist Takeover & Loss (1945-1946)

In the spring of 1945, the Allies were defeating Germany and the German troops retreated from our area. The communists took over the country. Soon afterwards, the new regime required all men to report to a neighboring town.

Our father also went there. With a large number of other men, father was arrested and put in jail. They were considered enemies of the new regime. My mother and I went to the town where he was held in jail, but we could only see him waving to us from far away. He looked very pale and weak. It was several weeks after that we were told that father died in prison. Again we went to the prison location where some guard pointed to a spot behind a fence where he said that father was buried. There was no sign of a grave or anything. We never saw his body or any of his belongings. We found out later that the men who were held as political prisoners were starved severely and beaten daily, and that many of them died, as apparently did my father.

Soon after my father's alleged death, the secret police started picking up whole families during the night and taking them to lockups, and we found out later that they were being held in various detention centers and most of them were later deported to neighboring countries.

Our turn came on a January night (all these things were done at night) of 1946 when two officials arrived at our house and announced that we all have a few minutes to pick up a few essentials and that we have to leave our home and go with them. We were held at a couple of different lockups in Ljubljana and Maribor for several months. Later in the year we were put on a train and deported to Austria. We were told that we better tell the Austrian and British authorities (the part of Austria was at that time occupied by British forces) that we were German descent and that if we were not accepted in Austria that they are going to keep on sending us across the border until they would take us. We were glad that we were accepted on the first try. The fact that my mother spoke a good German helped us. The four of us spent the next five years as refugees in the Kellerberg Displaced Persons Camp in Austria. During all the difficult times, our mother was the really strong person who battled all the adversities and kept us together and managed to have us survive as a family unit. She deserves all the credit and all our love. Thank God for her!
