Chapter 8: Family & Career (1956-1992)

On January 7, 1956, I married my fiancee, Wally Tiedmann, in the St. Stephen's Church, around Wallcot and Cermak, on the South Side of Chicago. My best man was Joe Ocepek, husband of Gisela Ocepek. We had a wedding reception at the Rainbow Gardens around the area of Armitage and Pulaski. We spent our honeymoon on a railroad trip to Phoenix, Arizona. We rented an apartment around 3500 West Wabansia, in Chicago, and lived there for a year. Wally worked for the Admiral T.V. Company and I started working for Motorola. We later moved to an apartment at 1521 N. Avers. It was here that our first son, Mark was born. Wally deliverd him at the Columbus hospital in Chicago. His godparents were my sister Mary and my brother John.

In the meantime, my sister Mary and Wally's brother John have met and were married to each other in January of 1957. The Koscak and Tiedmann connection was growing stronger. John and Mary had three sons: John, Jim, and Victor.

My brother John was married to Marianne Millich in May of 1965. They have two daughters: Tina and Cindy.

Wally and I purchased our home at 3629 Scott Street, in Franklin Park and moved in during January 1959. Our family has lived there ever since. On June 25, 1963, our daughter Jane was born, in Gottlieb Hospital, in Melrose Park. My sister Mary and brother John were again the godparents (there were not that many Catholics in our extended family). On August 18, 1965, our youngest, Ed was born in Gottlieb Hospital. We were now what was, at the time considered an average American family with three children. Uncle Sepp Wallner and grandmother Mary Koscak were Eddie's godparents. Wally and I are very proud of all three of our children.

Wally gave up her outside employment and devoted all her time raising a family. She was and is still doing a heck of a job and has always been the glue of our family!

In 1962, I started working as a civilian employee of the U.S. Navy, at the Naval Ordnance Plant in Forest Park, Il. I was hired as an Electronics Mechanic. I worked on testing the electronics guidance systems of Navy torpedo's and other electronics equipment. After some time on the job, I was promoted into several management positions. In 1971, the Forest Park operation was moved to an area close to Seattle Washington. I was offered a relocation to that area but did not want to move from this area. I started to work for the Army Ammunition Procurement Agency in Joliet. I worked there as a Management Analyst for two years and again that function was moved to Rock Island, Il. I applied for a job with the FAA and started to work for the Agency in 1973 as a Management Analyst. I have worked there ever since.

All three of our children attended the local public elementary schools and the East Leyden High School. They all graduated from the Northern Illinois University. We belonged to the Maria Goretti Catholic Church in Schiller Park and attended mass there. The children attended the CCD classes.

Our son Mark started working for the CNA Insurance company and soon moved to Nashville, Tennessee. After returning to Chicago for about two years, he moved back to Nashville, purchased a home there, and he still lives there now.

Our daughter Jane was married to Mark Bedard on September 19, 1987 at the St. Maria Goretti Church. The wedding reception (about 220 people) was held at the Villa Brunetti Reception Hall, in Franklin Park. Mark and Jane soon purchased a home in Carol Stream and they still live there at the present time.

Our son Ed married Kathy Watry on May 12, 1990, at the Mary Queen of Heaven Catholic Church in Elmhurst, Ill. The wedding reception was at the Addison Country Club, in Addison, Ill, and was attended by about 250 people. Ed and Kathy soon moved to St. Louis when Ed was transferred there from his job. They purchased a home in the St. Louis area. On August 23, 1992, Ed and Kathy became the parents of Michael Mark Koscak and Wally and I became grandparents for the first time. Michael is getting baptized on October 11, 1992. Jane and Mark Bedard will be the godparents.

And life goes on--------------------.


--- Update to "My Life Story", as of January 1999 ---

Our son Mark was married to Elisabeth (Beth), Caroline Walters on September 4, 1993 at the Grace Baptist Church in Johnson City, Tennessee. The wedding reception was at the Sheraton Hotel in Johnson City (about 150 relatives and friends attended). A subsequent Chicago wedding reception was held at the Terrace Restaurant in Lombard, IL. on October 1, 1993 (about 120 relatives and friends attended).

Both Mark and Beth have taken jobs in Johnson City, TN. during 1993 and have purchased a home there.

During September 1993, Mark and Jane purchased a home in the Randall Ridge development in Elgin, IL.

On April 28, 1994, a son Eric, Andrew was born to Mark and Jane. Our second grandchild! Eric was baptized on August 7, 1994 at the St. Thomas More Catholic Church, in Elgin IL. Ed and Mark Bedard's sister, Donna were godparents.

On June 16, 1994, Mom and I sold our Franklin Park home of over thirty years and purchased a new home in Elgin, one half block away from Mark and Jane.

My mother Mary Koscak died on December 22, 1994 about a year after she suffered a stroke. We had a memorial holy Mass at the St. Emily Church in Mt. Prospect, IL. on December 27, 1994. She is buried at the All Saints Cemetery in Des Plaines, IL.

On December 30, 1995, I retired from the FAA after almost 36 years of Federal Government service. A retirement party was held on January 10, 1996, at the Villa Brunetti's Reception Hall in Franklin Park, IL. About forty friends attended, including my lovely bride, daughter Jane and son Ed.

During June, 1995, Ed was transferred from his job in St. Louis to Rockford, IL. He and Cathy purchased a new home in Rockford.

On September 30, 1996, Matthew, Edward was born to Ed and Cathy. Our third grandchild! He was baptized on January 14, 1997, at the Mary Queen of Heaven Catholic Church in Elmhurst, IL. Cathy's sisters Susan and Joanne and Cathy's brother-in-law Dave were godparents.

On November 21, 1997, Thomas Joshua (T.J.) was born to Mark and Beth in Johnson City, TN. Our fourth grandchild! (we are working on basketball team!)

Mark and Jane are expecting their second blessed event during late March of 1999.

And life goes on according to God's plans--------------!
